Course Overview and Prerequisites This course is the first exposure to visual exploration of data students will experience in the program. Where the data manipulation course leaves students with an understanding of how to transform data from files into meaningful data structures, this course will teach students how to look for (visually) aggregate patterns within the data. Importantly, this course reaffirms many of the degree prerequisites, by presenting visualizations using statistical examples which are germane to the area of exploratory data analysis activity. Further, learners will be aware of emerging toolkits for visual exploration of data in python through an independent assignment. Prior to this course, students should have an understanding of the pandas library, which is covered in Data Manipulation, and a firm understanding of quantitative measures, such as means, standard deviations, and confidence intervals. Instructor and Course Assistants Primary Instructor: Christopher Brooks - brooksch@umich.edu Bobby Madamanchi - amadaman@umich.edu Anthony Giove - agiove@umich.edu Gregory Myers - gamyers@umich.edu Deepti Pandey - deeptip@umich.edu Communication Expectations Contacting instructor and course assistant : Course channel in Slack Email response time : 24 - 48 hours Slack response time : 24 - 48 hours Office hours : see Google Calendar Link Required Textbook Chapter 4, Exploratory Data Analysis , from Experimental Design and Analysis, by Howard J. Seltman. Copyright 2018 Howard Seltman. Matplotlib 3.0 Cookbook by Srinivasa Rao Poladi (O’Reilly). Copyright 2018 Packt Press 978-1-789-13571-8. Textbook link provided for Matplotlib 3.0 Cookbook allows free usage through the University of Michigan Library. University credentials required. Technology Requirements (unique to this course) None Accessibility Screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content Learning Outcomes Create effective visuals for data, including line plots, bar charts, scatter graphs, histograms, box plots, and heatmaps, all using python libraries; Relate the characteristics of data, such as the dimensionality of the data, central tendency measures, and variance, with the appropriate visual exploration mechanisms; Understand basic statistical techniques and how they might be used in exploratory data analysis; Use the python matplotlib package to create charts and visuals quickly as you engage in other courses in this degree; Be aware of emerging new libraries for visual exploration of data with the python language. Course Schedule This course begins on Monday, October 25 and ends on Sunday, November 21 Weekly assignments will be due as per the Coursera platform Grading Course Assignment Percentage of Final Grade Assignment 1 25% Assignment 2 25% Assignment 3 15% Assignment 4 35% Total 100% Note: All assignments are required to earn credit for this course. Letter Grades, Course Grades, and Late Submission Policy Refer to the MADS Assignment Submission and Grading Policies section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to Student Orientation course required) For this course, no late assignments will be accepted (0%). Extenuating circumstances will be considered (please reach out to umsimadshelp@umich.edu as soon as possible). Accommodations Refer to the Accommodations for Students with Disabilities section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Use the Student Intake Form to begin the process of working with the University’s Office of Services for Students with Disabilities. Help Desk(s): How to get Help Degree program questions or general help - umsimadshelp@umich.edu Coursera’s Technical Support (24/7) - https://learner.coursera.help/ Library Access Refer to the U-M Library’s information sheet on accessing library resources from off-campus. For more information regarding library support services, please refer to the U-M Library Resources section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Student Mental Health Refer to the University’s Resources for Stress and Mental Health website for a listing of resources for students. Student Services Refer to the Introduction to UMSI Student Life section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required).