Course Overview and Prerequisites This course has three objectives: (a) test students’ knowledge in a comprehensive fashion of the courses listed as prerequisites using a rigorous assessment, (b) create a portfolio project demonstrating skills learned thus far, including problem formulation, data acquisition, cleaning, manipulation, analysis, and visualization, and (c) provide a space for students to strengthen their knowledge of previous learning through repeated practice. The prerequisites for SIADS 593 include: SIADS 501, 502, 503, 505, 511, 515, 516, 521, and 522. Teaching Team Chris Teplovs, Ph.D. Lecturer IV in Information and Research Investigator, School of Information (lead) Anthony Whyte, Lecturer III in Information, School of Information Anthony Giove, Intermittent Lecturer in Information, School of Information Oleg Nikolsky, Intermittent Lecturer in Information, School of Information Ali Kirwen, Course Operations Specialist Course Communication Expectations Slack is the preferred communication tool for this course. If you have questions about course content (e.g. lecture videos or assignments), please make sure to use Slack. Instructor and course assistant response time to Slack messages will be within 24 hours. Please monitor the course Slack channel(s) regularly. Personal communication that may involve sensitive information may be emailed directly to the instructor or course assistant. If you email the instructor or course assistant, please include SIADS593 in the email subject. Instructor and course assistant response time to email messages will be within 24 hours. Help Desk(s): How to get Help Need help? You may reach out to UMSI or Coursera depending on the type of question you have. Degree program questions or general help - umsimadshelp@umich.edu Coursera’s Technical Support (24/7) - https://learner.coursera.help/ Weekly Readings There are no weekly readings in this course. Learning Outcomes Students will: Have the opportunity to synthesize knowledge, as well as practice tools and techniques that have been covered in the prerequisite courses, Create a project that is suitable for inclusion as part of a professional portfolio, and Be given the opportunity to discuss their progress in data science with a faculty member Course Schedule This course begins on Wednesday August 30, 2022 and ends on  Monday, October 24, 2022. Week Topic Video/Resources Work during the week Due at end of week 1 Introduction Video: Welcome to SIADS 593 - Milestone 1; Video: Introduction to the Project; Video: Introduction to Comprehensive Oral Exam; Preview the project guidelines, build your team, describe your proposed project; Read exam guidelines, sign up for an exam slot, review exam rubric Build your team, describe your proposed project; Sign up for an exam slot, 2 Collaboration & Exam Prep Video: Collaborative Data Science; Video: Exemplar Comprehensive Exams Project proposal, exam preparation Project Proposal 3 Peer Review & Work on Project None Peer reviews (2), exam preparation Peer Review of Proposals 4 Comprehensive Exam & Work On Project Reading: Grading Rubric for Comprehensive Examination Exams, project work with team None 5 Comprehensive Exam & Work on Project None Exams, project work with team None 6 Work on Project None Project work with team None 7 Submit Final Report Video: How to use the Project Gallery Project work with team Submit Final Project; Submit final Report via the Project Gallery on Coursera 8 Peer Review of Final Projects None Peer reviews (2) of Final Projects Peer review via comments on the Project Gallery Weekly Office Hours via Zoom (Ann Arbor, Michigan time): The instructional team holds weekly, synchronous office hours using the video-conferencing tool, Zoom. The schedule of office hours can be found by clicking on the Live Events link in the left-hand navigation menu. Additionally, all office hours will be recorded and archived so that you can retrieve them at a later date. Archived office hours can be found at the end of their respective module. Grading and Course Checklist Course Item Points Percentage of Final Grade Due Comprehensive oral exam signup 0 - Last day of week 1 Team formation, 
project topic selection 0 - Last day of week 1 Project proposal 30 3% Last day of week 2 Peer reviews (2) 30 3% Last day of week 3 Final project report 450 45% Last day of week 7 Peer review of final project (2) 30 3% Last day of week 8 Collaboration 30 3% Progress meetings 30 3% Comprehensive oral exam 300 30% Weeks 4 and 5 Comprehensive oral exam notebook(s) 100 10% Weeks 4 and 5 Total 1000 100% Note: All assignments are required to earn credit for this course. Late Policy Late assignments will be penalized 25% of the total points to be earned each day a submission is overdue. An assignment that is submitted  four (4) calendar days after the due date will receive a score of zero (0). Please note :  Submitting your work on time is very important in this course.  Your peers are relying on you to submit your work on time in this course so they can complete their work (in the form of peer reviews).  The instructional team will periodically reach out to you and ask you about your progress; if you fall behind on your project work you will be overwhelmed and you will be at risk for not succeeding in the course. Course Grades The grading scale for this course is as follows: A+ 97% A 93% A- 90% B+ 87% B 83% B- 80% C+ 77% C 73% C- 70% D+ 67% D 63% D- 60% F 0% Academic Integrity/Code of Conduct Collaboration UMSI strongly encourages collaboration while working on some assignments, such as homework problems and interpreting reading assignments as a general practice. Active learning is effective. Collaboration with other students in the course will be especially valuable in summarizing the reading materials and picking out the key concepts. You must, however, write your homework submission on your own, in your own words, before turning it in. If you worked with someone on the homework before writing it, you must list any and all collaborators on your written submission. Each course and each instructor may place restrictions on collaboration for any or all assignments. Read the instructions carefully and request clarification about collaboration when in doubt. Collaboration is almost always forbidden for take-home and in class exams. If you are a more advanced student and are willing to help other students, please feel free to do so. Just remember that your goal is to help teach the material to the student receiving the help and not do their work for them. Plagiarism All written submissions must be your own, original work. Original work for narrative questions is not mere paraphrasing of someone else’s completed answer: you must not share written answers with each other at all. At most, you should be working from notes you took while participating in a study session. Largely duplicate copies of the same assignment will receive an equal division of the total point score from the one piece of work. You may incorporate selected excerpts, statements or phrases from publications by other authors, but they must be clearly marked as quotations and must be attributed. If you build on the ideas of prior authors, you must cite their work. You may obtain copy editing assistance, and you may discuss your ideas with others, but all substantive writing and ideas must be your own, or be explicitly attributed to another. See the (Doctoral, MSI, BSI) student handbooks available on the UMSI intranet for the definition of plagiarism, resources to help you avoid it, and the consequences for intentional or unintentional plagiarism. Accommodations Refer to the Accommodations for Students with Disabilities section of the UMSI Student Handbook. Use the  Student Application Form in Accommodate to begin the process of working with the University’s Office of Services for Students with Disabilities Accessibility Refer to the Screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content document to learn accessibility tips for Jupyter Notebooks. Library Access Refer to the U-M Library’s information sheet on accessing library resources from off-campus. For more information regarding library support services, please refer to the U-M Library Resources section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Student Mental Health and Well-Being Students may experience stressors that can impact both their academic experience and their personal well-being. These may include academic pressure and challenges associated with relationships, mental health, alcohol or other drugs, identities, finances, etc. If you are experiencing concerns, seeking help is a courageous thing to do for yourself and those who care about you. If the source of your stressors is academic, please contact Anthony so that he can find solutions together. For personal concerns, U-M offers the following resources: Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) - confidential; 734-764-8312; for after-hours urgent support, call and press 0; counseling, workshops, groups and more. Ashley Evearitt, a CAPS counselor is embedded in UMSI, information about how to schedule an appointment with her can be found here . Dean of Students Office - 734-764-7420; provides support services to students and manages critical incidents impacting students and the campus community. Ginsberg Center for Community Service Learning - 734-763-3548; opportunities to engage as learners and leaders to create a better community and world. Maize and Blue Cupboard (MBC) - 734-936-2794; Food pantry with groceries, kitchen and cooking supplies, personal and household items, and support. Multi-ethnic Student Affairs (MESA) - 734-763-9044; diversity and social justice through the lens of race and ethnicity. Office of Student Conflict Resolution - 734-936-6308; offers multiple pathways for resolving conflict. Office of the Ombuds - 734-763-3545; students can raise questions and concerns about the functioning of the university. Services for Students with Disabilities (SSD) - 734-763-3000; accommodations and access to students with disabilities. SilverCloud - Students may also use an online, self-guided, interactive mental health resource that provides cognitive behavioral interventions. Sexual Assault Prevention and Awareness Center (SAPAC) - confidential; 734-764-7771 or 24-hour crisis line 734-936-3333; addresses sexual assault, intimate partner violence, sexual harassment, and stalking. Spectrum Center - 734-763-4186; support services for LGBTQ+ students. Student Services Refer to the Introduction to UMSI Student Life section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Disability statement The University of Michigan recognizes disability as an integral part of diversity and is committed to creating an inclusive and equitable educational environment for students with disabilities. Students who are experiencing a disability-related barrier should contact Services for Students with Disabilities ; 734-763-3000 or ssdoffice@umich.edu ). For students who are connected with SSD, accommodation requests can be made in Accommodate. If you have any questions or concerns please contact your SSD Coordinator or visit SSD’s Current Student webpage. SSD considers aspects of the course design, course learning objects and the individual academic and course barriers experienced by the student. Further conversation with SSD, instructors, and the student may be warranted to ensure an accessible course experience. The instructional team will treat any information that you provide in as confidential a manner as possible. Technology Tips We will be using Slack, Zoom, Google Docs, and Google Sheets to facilitate communication. The comprehensive oral exam will be conducted using Zoom, and the team project will be Python-based and Jupyter notebook-based. This course differs from your other MADS courses in many ways including technology.  We have created a Jupyter environment for you that is functionally equivalent to SIADS 516, which is a superset of the base MADS environment. You can access that environment via the "ungraded lab assignment" in Coursera.  You can use that environment or choose to use any of the environments from courses you have already completed.  Alternatively, you can use your own locally installed environment.  Another possibility is to use Deepnote or Google Collaboratory which may facilitate collaboration.