Course Overview and Prerequisites This course introduces experiment design for laboratory and field experiments. We will discuss the logic of experimentation, and the ways in which experimentation has been -- and could be -- used to investigate social and technological phenomena. Students will learn how to design experiments and analyze experimental data.
Students should have completed at least one undergraduate statistics class at the level of Stats 250. Instructor and Course Assistants Instructor: Alain Cohn - adcohn@umich.edu C​ourse Lecturers: Alex McLeod - mcleodal@umich.edu Mohamed Abbadi - meabbadi@umich.edu Contacting instructor and course assistants: Course channel in Slack (preferred) - siads631_fa22_001 (12-24 hour response time) Email - see above (24-48 hour response time) Textbooks Required: Running randomized evaluations : a practical guide / Rachel Glennerster and Kudzai Takavarasha. See the book’s website for purchasing options. This book is also available through the University of Michigan Library (restricted to one concurrent user). This book is at the right technical level for our class. Optional: Field Experiments: Design, Analysis, and Interpretation /Alan S. Gerber and Donald P. Green. See the book’s website for additional resources. Note: This is a technically more difficult and more precise book. It is listed here for those who would like to learn the material in greater depth. Technology Requirements (unique to this course) None Accessibility Screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content Learning Outcomes Use experiment as a method for causal inference. When designing experiments, know when to use blocking versus clustering for random assignment and subsequent data analysis. When designing an experiment, know basis power calculation. When implementing an experiment, know how to handle spillovers and non-compliance; know how to correct for multiple testing. Develop awareness of the areas of applications for laboratory and field experiments  -- experiments as measurement of individual preferences, as policy interventions, as evaluation method. Course Schedule This course begins on Tuesday, October 25, 2022 and ends on Monday, Novermber 21, 2022 . Weekly MobLab Activities will be due on Mondays at 11:59 pm (time zone = Ann Arbor, Michigan - Eastern Time). Weekly Quizzes and Programming Assignments will be due on Mondays at 11:59 pm (time zone = Ann Arbor, Michigan - Eastern Time). You can submit your office hours questions here in this form. Schedule of Weekly Office Hours via Zoom (time zone = Ann Arbor, Michigan - Eastern Time): Alex McLeod: Thursday at 8 pm - 9 pm Alain Cohn: Friday 4 pm - 5 pm Mohamed Abbadi: Sunday 11 am - 12 pm Assignments and Percentage of Final Grade Course Assignment Percentage of Final Grade Week 1 Activity - MobLab 2% Week 1 Quiz 10% Week 1 Assignment 13% Week 2 Activity - MobLab 2% Week 2 Quiz 10% Week 2 Assignment 13% Week 3 Activity - MobLab 2% Week 3 Quiz 10% Week 3 Assignment 13% Week 4 Activity - MobLab 2% Week 4 Quiz 10% Week 4 Assignment 13% 100% Note: All assignments are required to earn credit for this course. Letter Grades, Course Grades, and Late Submission Policy Refer to the Grades and Grading Policies section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to Student Orientation course required) The course grade scale is as follows: Letter Grade Percentage A [95-100] A- [90-95) B+ [85-90) B [80-85) B- [75-80) C+ [70-75) C [65-70) C- [60-65) D+ [55-60) D [50-55) D- [45-50) E Below 45 For this course, the late-submission penalty is a 15% daily-recurring reduction in grade for the first three days after the submission deadline. You will receive a zero (0) if your assignment is turned in four or more days late.  Students have one free pass to submit all of one week’s assessments late (up to three days).  Students don't need to explain their circumstances but need to report their late submission by DMing Instructional team. Instructional team will adjust the late grade for one week’s assessments. Academic Integrity / Code of Conduct Refer to the Academic and Professional Integrity section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to Student Orientation course required). While we offer a number of discussion channels to support your work, if you are stuck you may not share or receive complete solutions to the assignments. We also encourage you to support your classmates, but again, without sharing completed code (pointing to resources, describing ideas in pseudo-code, etc. is fine). Accommodations Refer to the Accommodations for Students with Disabilities section of the UMSI Student Handbook. Use the  Student Application Form in Accommodate to begin the process of working with the University’s Office of Services for Students with Disabilities. Help Desk(s): How to get Help Degree program questions or general help - umsimadshelp@umich.edu Coursera’s Technical Support (24/7) - https://learner.coursera.help/ Library Access Refer to the U-M Library’s information sheet on accessing library resources from off-campus. For more information regarding library support services, please refer to the U-M Library Resources section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Student Mental Health Refer to the University’s Resources for Stress and Mental Health website for a listing of resources for students. Student Services Refer to the Introduction to UMSI Student Life section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required).