Course Syllabus - SIADS 524: Presenting Uncertainty How to Get Help If you have questions concerning the degree program, encounter a technical issue with Coursera, or issues using Slack, please submit a report to the ticketing system at umsimadshelp@umich.edu. If you have an issue specific to the Coursera environment, you can also begin a live chat session with Coursera Technical Support (24/7) or view Coursera troubleshooting guides . (You may be asked to log in to your Coursera account). For questions regarding course content, refer to the Communications Expectations section below. Course Overview and Prerequisites This course covers strategies and techniques for effective uncertainty visualization. Uncertainty communication is essential for data analysts to learn, both to better understand their data and to effectively communicate the implications of data and models to others. This class covers a wide variety of uncertainty visualization techniques, including continuous uncertainty encodings, intervals, and frequency-framing approaches. Students will learn how each technique impacts people’s ability to perceive and reason about uncertainty and what biases and pitfalls to be wary of when communicating uncertainty. Uncertainty visualization techniques are placed into a coherent theoretical foundation, the Grammar of Graphics, and programming exercises are conducted in a Grammar of Graphics-based API, Altair. Finally, as it is crucial to accurately represent the limits of our knowledge, strategies for dealing with large-world uncertainty (communicating uncertainty about model specifications themselves) will be discussed throughout. Advisory Prerequisite : Visual Exploration of Data Enforced Prerequisites: Math Methods for Data Science, Information Visualization I Students should have seen different types of data plots (e.g., histograms, box plots) before entering the course (covered by the stats prerequisites), but they don’t need to be able to generate them through programming. Students should have an understanding of probability and Bayes’ rule (covered in Math Methods) and the Altair visualization library (covered in Infovis I). Instructor and Course Assistants Instructor: Nick Sheltrown - sheltro@umich.edu Course Lecturers:  Deepti Pandey - deeptip@umich.edu ; Jake Huang - yiju@umich.edu Contacting your instructor and course assistant(s): Use the course channel in Slack (siads524_ss23_001); for private messages the preferred method is to direct message us on Slack . You can also email us (see above), but this is not preferred: Slack response time will be better than email. Slack response time: Slack is the preferred communication medium for any questions and conversations that the group would benefit from, such as questions relating to course structure, and assignment clarifications. Posts received by 5pm Eastern will receive a same-day response; posts after 5pm Eastern will receive a response within 24 hours. As has been done in other MADS classes, we are going to set up separate threads for each week under which you can post your questions. Please tag both instructors in your question so that we won't miss any questions posted. If you’d like to ask a private question, please send a direct message to both of us, instead of to an individual instructor, so that your questions can be answered more quickly. This also helps keep the instructional staff on the same page as we work through issues, because we see each other's answers. Email response time: 48 hours; use only if you have been unable to reach us in Slack. Communicate proactively. If you find yourself in the position that you are not going to have an assignment ready for a deadline, please reach out ahead of time to discuss your options. Required Readings You will be given a list of required and recommended readings within the course. Online access to these readings are provided through the University of Michigan Library or through approved online sources. For resources provided through the library, you will be asked to sign in with your UMich uniqname and password to access these materials. Technology Requirements All course activities can be completed using core MADS technology, primarily Jupyter Notebooks within the Coursera platform.  Accessibility For those who choose to use Jupyter Notebooks, please see the screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content . For other accommodations needed related to COVID-19, please reach out to the instructors in Slack. Accessibility For those who choose to use Jupyter Notebooks, please see the screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content . Learning Outcomes Identify and describe the types of uncertainty associated with a model, including small world uncertainty, large world uncertainty, parameter uncertainty, and predictive uncertainty Read uncertainty visualizations Select appropriate uncertainty visualization encodings given the type of uncertainty and a decision-making task Assess how well an uncertainty visualization supports the tasks it was designed for Describe the difference between continuous and frequency-framing uncertainty visualizations and develop representations of either type for a visualization problem Assess whether an uncertainty visualization might be susceptible to misinterpretation, such as deterministic construal errors Produce uncertainty visualizations from statistical models using Altair Define uncertainty visualizations abstractly in terms of the Grammar of Graphics Course Schedule This course begins on Tuesday, May 2, 2023, and ends on Monday, May 29, 2023. Assignments will be due Mondays at 11:59pm Eastern. If you encounter an issue on due dates and need some kind of accommodation, please reach out to the instructors to discuss. Generally speaking, we want to work with students to ensure success. As soon as you have concerns about your progress in the course, please contact the instructors for a support conference. You have up until the last day of class to withdraw if needed; please refer to the MADS Student Handbook for more information about procedures for incomplete grades. Weekly Office Hours via Zoom Please visit the Live Office Hours tab in the course to view formally scheduled Office Hours. Office Hours will be on Thursdays at 8 PM and Sundays at 11 AM. The passcode to join is 524 Grading Course Assignment Percentage of Final Grade Quiz 1 2.5% Notebook Assignment 1 22.5% Quiz 2 2.5% Notebook Assignment 2 22.5% Quiz 3 2.5% Notebook Assignment 3 22.5% Quiz 4 2.5% Notebook Assignment 4 22.5% Total 100% Note: All assignments must be completed to earn credit for this course. Letter Grades, Course Grades, and Late Submission Policy Refer to the MADS Assignment Submission and Grading Policies section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to Student Orientation course required). The following represents the grading scale used in this course. Please note that conventional rounding rules will apply. For example,  93.50 will be rounded up to a 94 (A), but a 93.49 will be rounded to a 93 (A-). A+	Rarely given and only at the discretion of the instructor. A	94 + A - 	90 – 93 B+	88 – 89 B	84 – 87 B - 	80 – 83 C+	77 – 79 C	73 - 76 C - 	70 – 72 D+ 	67 – 69 D	63 – 66 D - 	60 – 62 E/F	below 59 Late Submissions This course moves at a rapid pace. To incentivize you to stay on track there is a 15% daily penalty (including weekends) if an assignment is turned in one day late, 30% reduction if two days late, 50% if reduction three days, and a zero (0) if four or more days late. Academic Integrity Unless otherwise specified in an assignment all submitted work must be your own, original work. Any 
excerpts, statements, or phrases from the work of others must be clearly identified as a quotation, and a 
proper citation provided. Any violation of the School’s policy on Academic and Professional Integrity 
(stated in the Master’s and Doctoral Student Handbooks) will result in serious penalties, which might 
range from failing an assignment, to failing a course, to being expelled from the program. Violations of 
academic and professional integrity will be reported to UMSI Student Affairs. Consequences impacting 
assignment or course grades are determined by the faculty instructor; additional sanctions may be 
imposed by the assistant dean for academic and student affairs. Accommodations Refer to the Accommodations for Students with Disabilities section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Use the Student Application Form in Accommodate to begin the process of working with the University’s Office of Services for Students with Disabilities. Library Access Refer to the U-M Library’s information sheet on accessing library resources from off-campus. For more information regarding library support services, please refer to the U-M Library Resources section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Need research help? You may not know that U-M librarians can provide support for you and your research needs for this course. Find suggested resources on the MADS research guide , or feel free to reach out to UMSI’s librarian, Shevon Desai, at shevonad@umich.edu -- it’s not an imposition. It’s what she’s there for! Student Mental Health University Students may experience stressors that can impact both their academic experience and their 
personal well-being. These may include academic pressures and challenges associated with 
relationships, mental health, alcohol or other drugs, identities, finances, etc. If you are experiencing 
concerns, seeking help is a courageous thing to do for yourself and those who care about you. If the 
source of your stressors is academic, please contact me so that we can find solutions together. Ashley 
Evearitt, a Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) counselor, is embedded in UMSI, schedule an 
appointment with her by copying and pasting the following url into your browser: https://bit.ly/Evearitt-
CAPS-UMSI
For personal concerns, U-M offers a variety of resources, many which are listed on the Resources for 
Student Well-being webpage. You can also search for additional well-being resources on that website. Student Services Refer to the Introduction to UMSI Student Life section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Diversity Diversity, equity, and inclusion matter at UMSI. Collaboration helps us develop interdependence and benefit from diverse perspectives and skills. For more information, please visit https://www.si.umich.edu/about-umsi/diversity-equity-inclusion-school-information . Disability Statement The University of Michigan recognizes disability as an integral part of diversity and is committed to 
creating an inclusive and equitable educational environment for students with disabilities. Students who 
are experiencing a disability-related barrier should contact Services for Students with 
Disabilities https://ssd.umich.edu/; 734-763-3000 or ssdoffice@umich.edu). For students who are 
connected with SSD, accommodation requests can be made in Accommodate. If you have any questions 
or concerns please contact your SSD Coordinator or visit SSD’s Current Student webpage. SSD considers 
aspects of the course design, course learning objects and the individual academic and course barriers 
experienced by the student. Further conversation with SSD, instructors, and the student may be 
warranted to ensure an accessible course experience. The instructional team will treat any information 
that you provide in as confidential a manner as possible. Audio and Video Recording Class Recordings
We will be doing audio and video recording of all office hour sessions to enable those who cannot attend office hours in 
person on a given day to access the content. These recordings will not be made available publicly. 
Recordings of all sessions will be available on Coursera only to students registered for this class. As part of 
your participation in office hours, you may be recorded. If you do not wish to be recorded, please contact 
the professor during the first week of class to discuss alternative arrangements. Students may not copy 
and share the office hour videos with those not in the class, or upload them to any other online environment 
(this is a violation of the Federal Education Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA)).

Personal recordings are prohibited except with permission
Students are prohibited from recording/distributing any class activity without written permission from 
the instructor, except as necessary as part of approved accommodations for students with disabilities. 
Any approved recordings may only be used for the student’s own private use.