Course Overview and Prerequisites This course introduces the basic concepts of Neural Networks and Deep Learning. Students will learn the basic model types used in Deep Learning and their suitability for various data domains such as text, images, and videos. By the end of this course, students will be able to extract patterns from real-world datasets by running several classes of deep learning methods using existing code via standard API calls. The course prerequisites are SIADS 502: Math Methods for Data Science, SIADS 505: Data Manipulation, and SIADS 542: Supervised Learning. Instructor and Course Assistants Instructor:  Paramveer Dhillon (dhillonp@umich.edu) Course Lecturers:  Yumou Wei (yumouwei@umich.edu), Cory Bilyeu (cbilyeu@umich.edu), Yachuan Liu Communication Expectations Contacting instructor and course assistant : Please only use the course channel in Slack. Please ask all questions in public if possible so others can learn from your question. If you need to ask a private question please direct message both the instructors and the course assistants. Email response time : 48 hours Slack response time : 48 hours Office hours : see the Google Calendar. Re-grading policy : re-grading requests should be sent to the course assistants (Jiaxin and Ssu-Ying) within 48 hours after the grades are posted. Textbook (Optional) Deep Learning by Goodfellow, Bengio, and Courville. Available at the link for free. Copyright 2016 MIT Press. Learning Outcomes Learn how to modify state-of-the-art deep learning architectures for a new dataset/task. Know the basic model types used in deep learning, e.g., Convolutional Neural Networks (CNNs), Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), and Generative Adversarial Networks (GANs). Understand the basic concepts of neural networks and deep learning methods. Know the suitability of specific deep learning methods to various real world data domains such as the ones arising from text, images, and videos. Be able to re-train and tune hyperparameters of several classes of deep learning methods, in particular CNNs, RNNs, and GANs, on real-world datasets. Be able to extract patterns from complex real world image and text datasets by using deep learning methods. Course Schedule This course begins on Wednesday, March 1, 2023 and ends on Tuesday, March 28, 2023 . Grading Course Assignment Percentage of Final Grade Week 1 Multiple-choice quiz 7% Week 1 Jupyter Notebook Assignment 10% Week 1 Jupyter Assignment - Staff Graded 10% Week 2 Multiple-choice quiz 7% Week 2 Jupyter Notebook Assignment 10% Week 2 Jupyter Assignment - Staff Graded 10% Week 3 Multiple-choice quiz 6% Week 3 Jupyter Notebook Assignment 10% Week 3 Kupyter Assignment - Staff Graded 10% Week 4 Jupyter Notebook Assignment 10% Week 4 Jupyter Assignment - Staff Graded 10% Letter Grades, Course Grades, and Late Submission Policy 1 day late = 15% reduction; 2 days late = 30%; 3 days late =  50%; 4 days late = 0 points. Extenuating circumstances will be considered (please reach out to the instructor as soon as possible). Percentage grades will be converted to letter grades using the following formula: Total Assignment Score Letter Equivalent 100 A+ 95-99 A 90-95 A- 85-90 B+ 80-85 B 75-80 B- 70-75 C+ 65-70 C 60-65 C- 55-60 D+ 50-55 D <50 E Accommodations Refer to the Accommodations for Students with Disabilities section of the UMSI Student Handbook. Use the Student Application Form in Accommodate to begin the process of working with the University’s Office of Services for Students with Disabilities. Accessibility Screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content Help Desk(s): How to get Help Degree program questions or general help - umsimadshelp@umich.edu Coursera’s Technical Support (24/7) - https://learner.coursera.help/ Library Access Refer to the U-M Library’s information sheet on accessing library resources from off-campus. For more information regarding library support services, please refer to the U-M Library Resources section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required). Student Mental Health Refer to the University’s Resources for Stress and Mental Health website for a listing of resources for students. Student Services Refer to the Introduction to UMSI Student Life section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student Orientation course required).