Course Syllabus for SIADS 652: Network Analysis 
 
Course Overview and Prerequisites 
This course will introduce students to basic network analysis techniques, emphasizing developing programming skills 
to manipulate and analyze real network data using Python. The course includes topics such as network evolution, link 
prediction, network centrality, models of information diffusion on networks, and community structure.   
The prerequisites for SIADS 652 are:  
● SIADS 542 Supervised Learning 
● SIADS 505 Data Manipulation 
● SIADS 502 Math Methods for Data Science 
Instructors 
 
 
 
Course Communication Expectations 
 
We will use Slack for most communication related to the class. We will monitor the channel and try to answer your 
questions as promptly as possible. This should not happen, but if we do not answer your question within 24 hours (not 
including weekends and holidays, of course), feel free to contact us again.  We also encourage you to answer each 
other’s questions and use this platform for discussion related to the class. While we will try our best to monitor and 
clarify or remove wrong or misleading responses, we cannot guarantee that all statements made by students are correct. 
Please remember to be civil and treat everyone with kindness and respect. If you prefer not to use Slack, please feel 
free to email anyone in the instructional team with comments or questions.  
 
How to Get Help 
If you have questions concerning the degree program, encounter a technical issue with Coursera, or issues using Slack, 
please submit a report to the ticketing system at umsimadshelp@umich.edu. 
 
If you have an issue specific to the Coursera environment, you can also begin a live chat session with Coursera 
Technical Support (24/7) or view Coursera troubleshooting guides. (you may be asked to log in to your Coursera 
account). 
 
For questions regarding course content, refer to the Communications Expectations section above. 
 
Weekly Readings or Textbook Information 
 
 
 
 
Daniel M Romero 
Associate Professor  
School of Information 
Complex Systems 
Computer Science 
Email: drom@umich.edu 
Cory Bilyeu 
Lecturer 
School of Information 
Email: cbilyeu@umich.edu 
 
You Wu 
Master’s Student 
School of Information 
Email: uvuuview@umich.edu 
 
 
Easley, David and Kleinberg, Jon. 2010. Networks, Crowds, and Markets: Reasoning About a Highly Connected 
World. Cambridge University Press, USA. 
 
Newman, Mark. 2018. Networks. Oxford University Press, USA. 
Liben‐Nowell, David, and Kleinberg, Jon. 2007. "The link‐prediction problem for social networks." Journal of the 
American Society for Information Science and Technology. 58(7): 1019-1031. 
Kossinets, Gueorgi, and Duncan J. Watts. 2006. "Empirical analysis of an evolving social network." Science. 311(5757 
): 88-90. 
Romero, Daniel M., Uzzi, Brian, and Kleinberg, Jon. 2016. "Social networks under stress." In Proceedings of the 25th 
International Conference on World Wide Web 9-20.  
Kempe, David, Kleinberg, Jon, and Tardos, Éva. 2003. "Maximizing the spread of influence through a social network." 
In Proceedings of the ninth ACM SIGKDD international conference on Knowledge discovery and data mining. 137-
146. 
Kim, D. A., Hwong, A. R., Stafford, D., Hughes, D. A., O'Malley, A. J., Fowler, J. H., & Christakis, N. A. 2015. Social 
network targeting to maximise population behaviour change: a cluster randomised controlled trial. The Lancet. 
386(9989): 145-153. 
Yang, Jaewon, and Jure Leskovec. 2015. "Defining and evaluating network communities based on ground-truth." 
Knowledge and Information Systems. 42(10: 181-213.  
 
To access the required textbooks, simply click on the links above to direct you to the U-M Library website. Scroll down 
the page and click on Available Online (some texts will have multiple online options, but it is recommended you 
choose Safari books online).  
 
After you are directed to the textbook, you will see an O’Reilly pop-up window asking for you to select your 
institution. U-M is not an available option, so you will need to select the option “Not Listed? Click Here”.  
 
 
 
You will be prompted to input your U-M email address (no password required).  
 
 
 
Learning Outcomes 
● Recognize and categorize real world networked data (social, financial, biological, transportation, information, 
etc.) and represent them using the appropriate network type (directed, weighted, signed, multigraph, bipartite, 
etc.).  
● Define, compute, and interpret basic network metrics such as distance, clustering, degree distribution, and 
centrality measures.  
● Describe several network generative models and understand the properties of the networks they generate. 
● Define, compute, and implement several measures that can be used for link prediction using real world data. 
● Articulate and implement the dynamics and assumptions of several information diffusion models and be able to 
implement. 
● Articulate the influence maximization problem and basic strategies and heuristics to solve it. 
● Articulate the community detection problem and understand its value in several applications. 
● Articulate and implement several approaches for community detection. 
 
Course Schedule 
● This course begins on Jan 4th and ends on Jan 31st. 
● Weekly assignments and quizzes will be due on Wednesdays at 11:59 pm (Ann Arbor, Michigan time-Eastern 
Daylight Time - EST, UTC -5). Assignments and quizzes will be due on 1/11, 1/18, 1/25, and 2/1. Note that the 
last deadline is after the official end of the course. If you prefer, you are welcome to submit your work earlier.  
Assignment and Quizzes 
 
Assignments consist of a combination of programming and reflection questions. The goal of the assignments is to apply 
the theory covered in the lecture and readings and the programming covered in the NetworkX tutorials to analyze both 
real and synthetic networks. Assignments will be partly auto-graded and partly manually graded. Please refer to the 
document Assignment Points Distribution on Coursera for the point distribution of all assignments.  
 
Quizzes consist of multiple-choice and numerical question. You will have 2 attempts to answer each question and you 
will be told which ones you answered correctly and incorrectly after each attempt. The goal of the quizzes is to assess 
your understanding of network theory. While you may choose to use NetworkX to answer some of the questions, this 
should not be necessary for most quiz questions.  
 
Weekly Office Hours via Zoom (Ann Arbor, Michigan time):  
Your instructor will hold weekly, synchronous office hours using the video-conferencing tool, Zoom. The schedule of office hours 
can be found by clicking on the Live Events link in the left-hand navigation menu. Additionally, all office hours will be recorded 
and archived so that you can retrieve them later. Archived office hours can be found by clicking on the Resources link in the left-
hand navigation menu then clicking the Archived Sessions link.  
 
Grading 
Course Item 
Percentage of Final Grade 
Due 
Week 1 
Quiz 7% 
Assignment 18%  
Wednesday 1/11 11:59pm 
Week 2 
Quiz 7% 
Assignment 18%  
Wednesday 1/18 11:59pm 
Week 3 
Quiz 7% 
Assignment 18%  
Wednesday 1/25 11:59pm 
Week 4 
Quiz 7% 
Assignment 18%  
Wednesday, 2/1 11:59pm 
Total 
100% 
 
 
Note: All assignments are required to earn credit for this course. 
 
Letter Grades, Course Grades, and Late Submission Policy 
 
Quizzes can be submitted late with a 10% daily deduction. The week 4 quiz is an exception: it can be submitted within 
24 hours for a 10% penalty, within 24-48 hours for a 20% penalty, and then no credit will be given.  
 
Programming assignments can be submitted late with a 25% daily deduction.  
 
The grading scale for this course is as follows: 
 
A+ 
98% 
A 
93% 
A- 
90% 
B+ 
87% 
B 
83% 
B- 
80% 
C+ 
77% 
C 
                               73% 
C- 
70% 
D+ 
67% 
D 
63% 
D- 
60% 
F 
0% 
 
Academic Integrity/Code of Conduct 
Refer to the Academic and Professional Integrity section of the UMSI Student Handbook. (access to Student 
Orientation course required). 
 
Accommodations 
Refer to the Accommodations for Students with Disabilities section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the 
Student Orientation course required). Use the Student Intake Form to begin the process of working with the 
University’s Office of Services for Students with Disabilities. 
 
Accessibility 
Refer to the Screen reader configuration for Jupyter Notebook Content document to learn accessibility tips for Jupyter 
Notebooks. 
 
Library Access 
Refer to the U-M Library’s information sheet on accessing library resources from off-campus. For more information 
regarding library support services, please refer to the U-M Library Resources section of the UMSI Student Handbook 
(access to the Student Orientation course required). 
 
Student Mental Health 
Refer to the University’s Resources for Stress and Mental Health website for a listing of resources for students. 
 
Student Services 
Refer to the Introduction to UMSI Student Life section of the UMSI Student Handbook (access to the Student 
Orientation course required). 
 
Technology Tips 
● Recommended Technology 
○ This program requires Jupyter Notebook for completion of problem sets and Adobe or other PDF viewer 
for reading articles. 
● Working Offline 
○ While the Coursera platform has an integrated Jupyter Notebook system, you can work offline on your 
own computer by installing Python 3.5+ and the Jupyter software packages. For more details, consult the 
Jupyter Notebook FAQ. 
 
